
Week2: investigating how climate simulators work. Try to finalize which models will be used in our project. Investigated CMIP available data and registered to get access. 
Week3: Collect observational time series data. Research on the construction
 Of causal graphs given time-series data. GC, CCM, PCMI, FCI. How to constrain the graph (choose t-1,t,t+1)?Use annually data for one specific month. Visualize data.
Week4: model co2 - temperature as a causal model. Exploration of tigramite.
Week 4: modify objective task. Create matrix with data of earth models. Model true_temp as = w*model_temp. Add related papers. If we is seen as a factor model can we have some proxies Z like in the Abodie paper? (Probably move without proxy predictors with a slight const in convergence time). 
Models that could be used: Linear regression (classic case y~N(wy,v)), GLMs, Neural Network (probably very few data plus not a favorite one).
Week 5: cluster djf temperatures instead of just picking one month. Fetch true temperature data.
Week 6: having some problems with real temperature datasets... they all represent temperature anomalies instead of absolute data.. First synthetic control objective function minimization code. 
Week 7: Created two synthetic control calculation processes. For the first one matrix V is set with equal values for all donors (the importance of each past approximation of Y is equal). For the second one matrix V is calculated through cross validation. Also tested for grouped 5-year time series data. 
Week 8: Coded matrix completion via nuclear norm regularization. Searching for ways to convert CMIP5 data to anomalies in order to compare to HADCUT5 dataset. Hadcut 5's grid is 5x5 degrees, reference period for calculating anomalies is 1961-1990. Created code to convert CMIP6 absolute temperatures to anomalies. Maybe I can  find missing data locations from the datasets that were used to create Hadcut and also I can remove them from the CMPI6 datasets. The resolution of each dataset however is different... Search for ways to expand synthetic control method. Maybe try generalized linear models but how to chose link? 
Week 9: Wrote cross validation code for matrix completion. Studying generalized synthetic controls and generalized linear models
Week 10: Gathered some predictors to try to use in synthetic control. Applied synthetic controls with and without predictions using as prediction period different intervals to test sensitivity to interval choice (seems robust enough) The synthetic controls reconstruct temperature good enough. Can we extrapolate??. Added smoothing component to Nuclear norm matrix completion. However, because all matrix entries are already very small, and therefore fixed time effects are also small, the l2 regularizer does not affect significantly the fixed effects vector.
Week 11: Studied and implemented augmented SC. Included trend analysis using calman filter. Trained a simple dlm to fit data and compare performance.
